FDA is announcing its intention to hold a virtual public meeting to begin the reauthorization process of MDUFA, the legislation that authorizes FDA to collect user fees to support the process for the review of device applications. Without new legislation, FDA will no longer be able to collect user fees after FY 2022 to fund the medical device review process.

Section 738A(b)(2) of the FD&C Act (21 U.S.C. 379j–1(b)(2)) requires that before FDA begins negotiations with the regulated industry on MDUFA reauthorization, the Agency perform the following: (1) Publish a notice in the 

Federal Register

requesting public input on the reauthorization; (2) hold a public meeting where the public may present its views on the reauthorization, including specific suggestions for changes to the goals set under MDUFA IV; (3) provide a period of 30 days after the public meeting to obtain written comments from the public; and (4) publish the comments on FDA's website at 

https://www.fda.gov.

This notice, the public meeting, the 30-day comment period after the meeting, and the posting of the comments on FDA's website will satisfy these requirements.

The purpose of the meeting is to hear stakeholder views on MDUFA as we consider the features to propose, update, and discontinue in the next MDUFA and FDA's recommendation to Congress. Information about the MDUFA program can be found at 

https://www.fda.gov/​industry/​fda-user-fee-programs/​medical-device-user-fee-amendments-mdufa.

Information about MDUFA IV can be found at 

https://www.fda.gov/​industry/​medical-device-user-fee-amendments-mdufa/​medical-device-user-fee-amendments-2017-mdufa-iv

and the MDUFA IV Performance Goals and Procedures can be found at 

https://www.fda.gov/​media/​102699/​download.

FDA is interested in responses to the following general questions and welcomes any other pertinent information stakeholders would like to share:

(1) What is your assessment of the overall performance of MDUFA IV thus far?

(2) What programs/commitments under MDUFA IV are working well?

(3) What programs/commitments can be added or improved to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the medical device review process for MDUFA V?

(4) What should the medical device ecosystem, and our medical device program in particular, look like at the end of MDUFA V (

i.e.,

September 2027), and how can MDUFA V support achieving that future state?

II. Topics for Discussion at the Public Meeting

In general, the meeting format will include presentations by FDA and a series of panels representing different stakeholder groups (such as patient advocates, consumer protection groups, industry, healthcare professionals, and academic researchers). FDA will also provide an opportunity for public comment at the meeting, and for organizations and individuals to submit written comments to the docket. The presentations should focus on program improvements and funding issues, including specific suggestions for changes to performance goals, and not focus on policy issues. We will make the agenda for the public meeting available by October 13, 2020, on the internet at 

https://www.fda.gov/​medical-devices/​workshops-conferences-medical-devices/​2020-medical-device-meetings-and-workshops.

(Select this meeting from the posted events list.)

III. Participating in the Public Meeting

Registration:

To register for the public meeting, please visit FDA's Medical Devices News & Events—Workshops & Conferences calendar at 

https://www.fda.gov/​MedicalDevices/​NewsEvents/​WorkshopsConferences/​default.htm.

(Select this public meeting from the posted events list.) Please provide complete contact information for each attendee, including name, title, affiliation, email, and telephone.

Registration is free and based on space availability, with priority given to early registrants. Persons interested in viewing this public meeting must register by October 23, 2020, by 4 p.m. Eastern Time. Registrants will receive confirmation when their registration has been accepted. You will be notified if you are on a waiting list. We will update the website if registration closes before the day of the public meeting.

If you need special accommodations due to a disability, please contact Susan Monahan, Center for Devices and Radiological Health, Food and Drug Administration, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Silver Spring, MD 20993, 301–796–5661, 

susan.monahan@fda.hhs.gov

no later than October 13, 2020.

Requests for Oral Presentations:

During online registration, you may indicate if you wish to present during a public comment session or participate in a specific session, and which topic(s) you wish to address. All requests to make oral presentations must be received by September 28, 2020, at 4 p.m. Eastern Time. We will do our best to accommodate requests to make public comments. Individuals and organizations with common interests are urged to consolidate or coordinate their presentations, and request time for a joint presentation, or submit requests for designated representatives to participate in the focused sessions. FDA will determine the amount of time allotted to each presenter and the approximate time each oral presentation is to begin and will notify selected speakers by October 5, 2020. If selected for presentation, any presentation materials must be emailed to Ellen Olson (see 

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT

) no later than October 20, 2020. No commercial or promotional material will be permitted to be presented or distributed at the public meeting.

Streaming Webcast of the Public Meeting:

The webcast link will be available on the registration web page after October 13, 2020.

Transcripts:

As soon as a transcript of the public meeting is available, it will be accessible at 

https://www.regulations.gov.

It may also be viewed at the Dockets Management Staff (see 

ADDRESSES

). A link to the transcript will also be available on the internet 

https://www.fda.gov/​MedicalDevices/​NewsEvents/​WorkshopsConferences/​default.htm.

(Select this meeting from the posted events list.)

Dated: September 2, 2020.

Lauren K. Roth,

Associate Commissioner for Policy.